Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
JESSICA McDONALD: [inhales]
Can I say what it stands for?
SAMANTHA MEWIS:
Can I. like. yell?
KELLEY O'HARA:
Please don't put that on there.
My mother will kill me. [laughs]
MEWIS: I won't yell that loud.
McDONALD: LFG stands for...
MEGAN RAPINOE: Let's fucking go.
MEWIS: Let's fucking go!
O'HARA: LFG. Let's fucking go.
[laughs]
MEWIS: It's like an inspiring
and. like. all encompassing...
O'HARA: ...rallying cry.
McDONALD: It stands
for our team. that's for sure.
MEWIS: Like. let's fucking go.
let's do it.
O'HARA: Yeah. and then.
you know. the LFG
you obviously can
put out there in the world
and not. not upset Mom.
[laughs]
MEWIS: LFG!
McDONALD: LFG!
BECKY SAUERBRUNN:
Let's fucking go.
RAPINOE: Let's fucking go.
Let's get it. let's get weird.
♪ We take it
for what goes near it ♪
McDONALD: It took true blood.
sweat. and tears
to obviously get
to where I am today.
There were times
I wanted to give up.
I mean. here I am.
three-time pro champion.
two-time NCAA champion.
I've achieved my dream.
I wanted to make the USA team.
and I did.
♪
But even though
all these accolades
sound absolutely incredible.
we don't get paid very much.
I mean. I was scraping pennies
for the past seven years
in my career.
just trying to get by. literally
living paycheck to paycheck.
I had friends
who were waitresses
who were making three times
as much as me in a year.
and me being
a professional athlete.
I still. to this day. I still
think it's unacceptable.
And then it was like.
oh. my gosh. holy crap!
♪ Eh. eh. eh ♪
♪ Oh. oh. oh. oh ♪
♪
Megan raised her hand
and was like.
"Hey. team. we're going
to have a meeting."
and we're like. okay. cool.
What's she about to say?
You know.
She was just like.
so we have this lawsuit.
And I was like.
"Oh. pump the brakes. What?"
O'HARA: We're suing our employer
that gives us a job.
and this is the job
that we all want
and that we all strived
our entire lives for.
SAUERBRUNN:
And it's frightening.
and some people have different
levels of understanding
of what a lawsuit
actually contains
and what you're going
to have to do.
MEWIS: We knew
that we were coming upon
the biggest couple months
of our lives and careers
with the World Cup
coming up in June.
RAPINOE: It's scary to go
against your federation
or. you know. go against
your employer in that way
because like.
the alternative is. you know.
not being able
to make a living doing it.
CHRISTEN PRESS:
Okay. we're going to do
this really scary thing together
that's really important
and can impact the world
at the same time that we. like.
put our entire life and career
on the line for each other.
McDONALD: And we're like.
"Yeah. let's do it.
We're all in this together.
Let's fight the good fight."
O'HARA: We've been asking
for a long time. and. um.
we finally got to a point
where we decided to take it.
take matters into our own hands.
♪ Ah ♪
♪ Ah. boom bang ♪
♪ boom bang ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ boom boom ♪
♪ crash bang ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ bang crash ♪
♪ bang ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ bang crash bang ♪
♪ crash ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ crash crash ♪
♪ boom ♪
JEFFREY KESSLER: So. the women
on the U.S. Soccer team
are suing the United States
Soccer Federation for equal pay.
They have been discriminated
against by their employer.
who pays more money to the men's
team than the women's team.
even though the women's team
are the world champions
and the men are not.
So. merely for showing up
and playing a game.
the men get more per game
than the women.
For each game they win.
the men get a higher bonus
than the women would get
for winning that game.
For qualifying
for the World Cup...
♪ Uh-huh ♪
...the men make more money
than the women make.
For advancing in the World Cup
and for winning the World Cup.
the men make more money
than the women would make.
So at every single
point in time.
there is a difference.
That's just a starting place
in money.
Then we have to add to that
all the other discrimination
that's taken place.
the fact that that the men
will go to five-star hotels
and the women go.
like. to Motel 6.
That's a little bit
of an exaggeration.
but you get the point.
The men will travel in charters.
The women almost never travel
in charters.
I think the last one they did
was after they won
the World Cup.
The men will get
more training resources.
more marketing resources.
better fields.
♪
And the only reason
for this discrimination
is because they are not men.
And that's wrong.
it violates the law
as we understand it.
and that's what this case
is about.
[cheering]
COMMENTATOR: The Women's
World Cup kicks off in France.
But in a stunning move
on International Women's Day.
all 28 members of the team
filed a gender
discrimination lawsuit
against the U.S.
Soccer Federation.
COMMENTATOR:
...Morgan. Carli Lloyd.
Megan Rapinoe. 28 players.
COMMENTATOR:
These players are arguably
among the most famous athletes
on the planet.
COMMENTATOR: And had
much more success on the pitch
than their male counterparts.
winning three World Cups
and four Olympic gold medals.
MAN 1: Four championships.
MAN 2: Four championships.
that's why I'm here.
MAN 3: We ain't going home
without a trophy. baby!
SEBASTIAN SALAZAR: Whenever
you talk about this team.
you really have to talk
about the equal pay lawsuit.
JULIE FOUDY:
Having lived through a lot
of contract negotiations...
My first reaction was.
"Wow. That was bold."
To throw a lawsuit down
against your employer
who you're going
to the World Cup with
in three months' time.
and have that sitting there
was a big one because I knew
this. this gets contentious.
It gets ugly.
I wonder if we would have
had the courage.
I don't think
we would've done that.
CARDELLE SPANGLER:
It has never been done before
that female athletes have sued
their employer in the U.S.
to be treated equally
with male athletes.
It just hasn't happened before.
If we are victorious
in the case.
this will be one
of those landmark decisions
that will be talked about
for decades.
SAUERBRUNN:
To do the things that we did
and. you know.
speak the way that we speak.
like we're inviting criticism.
We make this target on our back
bigger and bigger.
MEWIS: I was just surprised
by the sheer. like. number
of people who were just like.
"Oh. fuck them."
like. "They don't deserve that."
like. "They should be
in the kitchen."
For someone to say
I don't deserve to get paid
when a male soccer player
who does the same exact work
that I do
make. I mean. makes so much.
And it's not just in America.
it's all over the world.
How do we see the world
so differently?
COMMENTATOR:
Controversial comments
from Atlanta United manager.
COMMENTATOR: Frank de Boer
called the idea
of equal pay in sports
ridiculous.
SAUERBRUNN: We're not just
fighting for soccer glory.
We're also representing
what women can be
when given a certain platform.
And anything less than winning
is a failure.
[cheering and singing]
CROWD: USA! USA! USA!
[cheering]
SAUERBRUNN: We work as a group
in this fight.
and there are a lot of
components to that secret sauce.
We have such
a cast of characters that bring
so many different things
to the equation.
Start with Megan Rapinoe.
She would be the confidence.
the swagger. and the bravado.
and she's able to back it up.
RAPINOE: Alex. she's
the most popular player.
but she's also. like. incredibly
plugged in. intelligent.
and a good speaker
and. you know.
is. like. powerful
using her voice.
Press is extremely. like.
thoughtful and cautious
and wants to think
everything through.
and I'm like.
"Let's just do it!"
and. you know. then we kind of
come to a happy medium.
Obviously. Carli being one of
the biggest long-standing names
on the team
uses her voice a lot.
MEWIS: Becky is. like.
kind of like
the moral compass of the team.
I trust her values
because I know
that she's thought deeply
about them.
When she says something.
everybody really.
really listens.
SAUERBRUNN: And then you have
a player like Kelley O'Hara.
who. I say this
in the most respectful way.
like you always need a little
crazy in your. in your team.
and she brings the crazy.
Jess plays with so much heart
and so much courage.
and she's so selfless. she'll
do whatever you ask of her.
And you've got younger players
like Rose Lavelle and Sam Mewis
and Lindsey Horan. and those
types of players equate success.
PRESS: I think we always know
that the best thing
that we could do for soccer.
for the lawsuit.
for everything
that we're fighting for.
equality. is to win.
[cheering]
COMMENTATOR: The 2015
winners. the United States.
begin their defense
of the trophy against Thailand.
an evening they've been
waiting for for quite some time.
[chanting]
COMMENTATOR: It's a sea
of red. white. and blue
in this sold-out stadium
of just over 20.000.
Carlos Cordeiro.
president of U.S. Soccer.
in attendance tonight.
McDONALD: This is ours.
If we win this World Cup.
they will have no choice
but to be on our side.
COMMENTATOR: And we all wait.
RAPINOE:
This just has to happen.
COMMENTATOR:
Let the crowd count it down.
Here we go!
Rapinoe. end line.
wants to cut it back.
SAUERBRUNN:
Entering that field. it was.
"You're going to make
a statement that is going
to carry us
the rest of the tournament."
COMMENTATOR: Alex Morgan. goal!
[cheering]
And there's one for the U.S.
It's 3-nothing. Horan.
The rout is on.
Mewis with the shot.
deflected. goal!
Cross. Lavelle! Goal!
Rapinoe with a goal!
9-nothing. U.S.
♪
Come on!
Five for Morgan.
13-nothing. U.S.
McDONALD: That was just
the start of it all.
and everyone's just like.
wow. 13-0.
and it's like.
"Oh. we're not done yet. okay?"
COMMENTATOR: Driven across.
headed down. goal!
Carli Lloyd's got two.
U.S. has three.
♪
COMMENTATOR:
President Trump is taking
a new interest in soccer.
He refused to say
whether they deserve equal pay.
ANDERSON COOPER:
Co-captain Megan Rapinoe
is in another match
with President Trump.
RAPINOE: It was quite laughable
to find out that the president
had tweeted what he had tweeted.
And immediately I was like.
uh. I feel like
I've done something.
like something happened.
you know?
I stand by the comments
that I made
about not wanting
to go to the White House.
with the exception
of the expletive.
My mom will be very upset
about that.
The platform that. you know.
we've worked so hard to build.
why would we lend that
to someone who's literally
against. like. everything
that we're for?
It was just like kind of.
it's just. like. laughable.
Like. this is crazy.
And then it was like.
hold my beer.
[muffled announcement]
COMMENTATOR:
The long-awaited free kick.
[whistle blows]
Rapinoe sends it in low.
Goal. U.S.!
[cheering]
RAPINOE: That pose was like.
you're not gonna steal our joy.
Are you not entertained?
What more do you want?
[cheering]
You probably
just fueled the fire.
and. like. this team
is just uncrackable.
and if anything.
like. motivated and inspired
by more pressure.
♪
COMMENTATOR: Header! Goal!
Happy Birthday. Alex Morgan!
[cheering]
Huge numbers of U.S. fans
have made their way
to the unofficial capital
of France's Champagne region.
Most viewed. most challenging
World Cup is now down
to just two nations.
What's it like game day
of a World Cup championship
match in that tunnel?
RAPINOE: We're like.
we have to fucking win
for reasons that we know.
[laughs] You know?
[cheering]
Everybody knows what that means.
COMMENTATOR: Rapinoe
two for two in this tournament.
[whistle blows]
[cheering]
Goal! U.S. leads!
Cutting. shooting.
goal!
Lavelle. 2-nothing. U.S.!
MEWIS: There was just
a couple of minutes left.
and so. like. I kind of
started to be like...
and be like. is this
really about to happen?
COMMENTATOR: That's it. U.S.
wins their fourth World Cup.
[cheering]
MEWIS:
The whistle finally blows.
and I was just like. oh. my god.
I was so proud of myself
for making it there.
I was so proud of the team
for overcoming everything
that we'd overcome.
SAUERBRUNN: So many
great emotions. you know.
The feeling like. "Oh. my god. I
can't believe we did it again."
And for me.
like the sense of relief like.
"Oh. good. I didn't
screw it up for the team."
RAPINOE: I mean. we did it
in spectacular fashion
and like got. you know.
essentially the entire world
on our side.
so what more do you need?
[cheering]
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
McDONALD: We heard
people chanting.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay!
McDONALD: Oh. my gosh.
that's when I felt the movement.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
McDONALD: All right.
it's not just us.
but it looks as if the world
is on our side.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
[cheering]
RAPINOE: You know.
Macron's there.
COMMENTATOR: French President
Macron there.
RAPINOE: All of the sort
of bigwigs in FIFA
and just generally.
Obviously. Carlos is there.
COMMENTATOR: Carlos Cordeiro.
president of U.S. Soccer.
RAPINOE: So. yeah. it's
kinda like. "We told you guys.
Everyone's. like.
ready for this. you know?
It's the time. so like
[snaps] get with it."
[cheering]
[fireworks exploding]
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay! Equal pay!
KESSLER: This case
is not about FIFA.
It's not about the fact
that FIFA discriminates
massively against women.
It does. but that's not
this case.
FIFA doesn't pay any money
to these players.
They pay money to federations
like the U.S. Soccer Federation.
and it determines
how to divide up its money
between the men and the women.
They refused to pay
the women equally
because they thought
they could get away with it.
You cannot treat women
like this in the workplace
and get away with it.
If I didn't think
we were going to win.
I never would have
taken this case.
PRESS: You know.
I think at some point
between the final whistle
and us landing in the U.S..
like every single player
on the team
probably thought
about the lawsuit.
You know. we were thinking like.
it's still here.
You know. we still got
to go back and figure out
what we're doing
and figure out what this means.
NEWS REPORTER: Now that
the World Cup is over.
another battle begins.
The women's team
will start mediation.
COMMENTATOR: Mediation
will be taking place
between the two sides.
That in itself
is a very big step.
♪
[cheering]
ROBIN ROBERTS: The U.S.
Soccer Federation President.
Carlos Cordeiro. has some words
he'd like to share. Carlos.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay! Equal pay!
RAPINOE: Being a part
of the moment.
I was very hopeful.
probably naively. um.
because I was
just thinking like.
"Surely you're not
gonna mess this up.
Like. it's laid out for you."
CARLOS CORDEIRO: To our Women's
National Team and the millions
who support them.
in recent months.
you have raised
your voices for equality.
Today on behalf of all of us
at U.S. Soccer.
I want to say we hear you.
we believe in you.
and we're committed
to doing right by you.
And that is why. over the years.
U.S. Soccer has invested more
in women's soccer
than any country in the world.
[crowd jeering]
RAPINOE: I was like.
"Not exactly what we want
to hear. is it?"
[crowd jeering]
CORDEIRO: And we will.
and we will continue to invest.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
RAPINOE: You deserve the boos.
and so I was enjoying that.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay! Equal pay!
CORDEIRO: We believe
at U.S. Soccer
that all female athletes
deserve fair and equitable pay.
One nation. one team. go. USA!
[applause and cheering]
RAPINOE: I wish
that he would have.
and the federation. frankly.
would have understood better
the moment and the potential
that they had to kind of
flip the script going forward
because I think
they could have come out
looking like heroes as well.
to be able to stand on the steps
of City Hall and being like.
"We're going to do this
with our team."
Obviously. they weren't
prepared to do that.
and they didn't do that.
To the federation. Carlos.
everybody gets booed.
Everybody in the position
of power gets booed.
I'm going to stick my neck
out there a little bit.
I'm going to endorse Carlos.
I think he's with us.
I think he's on the right side
of things.
I think he's going
to make things right.
Thank you.
[applause and cheering]
We look forward to holding
those feet to the fire.
With our fight
with the federation.
I'm sorry for some of the things
I said. not all of the things.
But it's time to come together.
It's our responsibility to make
this world a better place.
I think this team does
an incredible job
of taking that on our shoulders
and understanding
the position that we have
and the platform that we have
within this world.
Yes. we play sports.
Yes. we play soccer.
Yes. we're female athletes. but
we're so much more than that.
You're so much more than that.
We have to collaborate.
it takes everybody.
Please. I ask you.
[applause and cheering]
New York City.
you're the motherfucking best!
♪
My life personally
I think has changed forever.
In the same sense.
it's totally the same.
You know. I'm still just me
and still just doing
the exact same thing
that I was doing before.
just sort of at a much
more heightened sense.
I am who I am all the time.
It's not like some act.
I mean. I don't even know if
I want to make this comparison.
but in the same ways
that people liked that Trump
just said some wild-ass shit.
but. like. I'm like that.
but for good. you know?
And. like. we need more of that.
Everyone right now
is at a pool party.
and I'm going
on Anderson Cooper
and Rachel Maddow.
So. these ones
are a little bit more
just 'cause they're not
really in the soccer realm
and a little bit. I wouldn't say
out of my comfort zone.
but I'm just less practiced and
don't want to fuck up. so.
[cheering and whistling]
JASMINE: Hi. I'm Jasmine.
I'm with Rachel Maddow.
Nice to meet you.
This is Juliette.
RAPINOE: Are you walking me in?
JULIETTE: Yes. please.
RAPINOE: Oh. my god!
INTERVIEWER: There's been so
much energy from this tournament
that is almost unprecedented.
What do you think makes this
moment in 2019 so different?
RAPINOE: I mean. I think
female athletes in general
are really always at
the forefront of every protest
because we're unfortunately
constantly being oppressed
in some sort of way.
so I feel like coming together.
whether its for equal pay or
gender equality or LGBTQ rights.
whatever it is. it seems like
we're kind of all
in this fight together.
[laughs]
This is standard post-tournament
"Rachel Maddow Show."
RACHEL MADDOW: Hi. how are you?
Are you the trophy wrangler?
AARON HEIFETZ: I'm the press
officer. trophy wrangler.
MADDOW: Is that a special cloth?
HEIFETZ: It is a special cloth
provided by FIFA.
MADDOW: They give the women
a smaller cloth.
RAPINOE: It's synthetic.
I feel like I'm just
like a super engaged citizen.
Everybody should be
this engaged.
Everybody should care this much.
We have been very outspoken.
The federation has put
a lot of resources
and money and support
behind the team.
and I think that
they do deserve credit for that
when we talk about all the
other federations in the world.
but just because you're better
than someone who's bad
doesn't mean necessarily
that you're good.
MADDOW: It's great to have you
here. congratulations.
RAPINOE: I think the way
I am off the field
is exactly the way
I am on the field.
♪ What you see is what you get ♪
♪ Better take a sip. sip ♪
♪ On my purple lips.
jagged licks ♪
♪ Out my hips. bitch ♪
COMMENTATOR: Rapinoe. goal!
♪
♪ What you see is what you get ♪
♪ Better take a sip. sip ♪
♪ On my purple lips.
jagged licks ♪
♪ Out my hips. hips ♪
♪ I'm a skunky black witch
with no devil. six six ♪
♪ Read the ink
under my fingernails ♪
♪ Zero...kind of bitch ♪
RAPINOE: I love it.
I love the game.
♪
♪ Zero...kind of bitch ♪
I feel like I have
like a deep connect--
like emotional connection
with soccer.
♪ Anarchists. post up
on your front porch ♪
♪ What you see is what you get ♪
Of course. you have to. like.
work at it and all of that.
But I don't know. I just.
I don't like that.
like. narrative
with athletes of. like.
all athletes are always talking
about how hard
they work all the time.
So does everybody else.
I think we were definitely
raised that way.
Just pretty standard
blue-collar.
um. working.
working-class family.
My dad's
a construction supervisor.
and my mom's a waitress.
She grew up super poor.
I think that I'm
a perfect snapshot of America.
You know. I'm not from.
like. crazy. like left-wing.
you know. coastal elite family
or anything.
I'm just really just normal.
you know.
regular. small-town
sort of family.
You could look at me
and say like.
oh. I'm the American dream.
And then like. you know.
look at my brother and be like.
oh. this is the American reality
in a lot of ways.
I think we were like 10
or something
when he like. got arrested
for the first time.
Really probably just needed
like drug treatment. you know?
We had this crazy
opioid epidemic
that was just left
totally unfettered
and actually encouraged.
and. you know.
sort of. here we are.
I think it's actually
like the perfect example
of having like this. you know.
exceptional. like.
world-beating athlete be.
you know. the.
you know. in essence.
the very same person as this.
like. person who got swept up
in all this shit.
so it's like a true
American story. basically.
[cheering]
I mean. I think
it's all connected.
GIRLS: Megan! Megan! Megan!
RAPINOE: Me Too or
Black Lives Matter or anything.
it's sort of--
to me. it's all the same fight.
GIRL: Hi. Megan!
RAPINOE: Hi! How are you?
GIRL: I watch you on TV.
RAPINOE: You do?
Like probably every woman
we're getting go. go. go from.
you know. every woman. I think.
is watching this.
WOMAN: One. two. three!
WOMAN: This book.
my students wrote it.
RAPINOE: Amazing!
To see. like. it go
through all generations
is kind of incredible.
You can. you know. and to see
the different emotion
in all the different ages
of eyes is really cool.
You know.
older woman being like.
"I know I'm never
going to see it.
but. like. I hope you guys
get it. you know?"
And then little kids
saying it to me.
WOMAN: So. Megan. we really
want equal pay for her.
RAPINOE: I know. right.
I probably won't get it.
but you might!
WOMAN: Thank you!
RAPINOE: Yeah. maybe I'll get it
like one or two years
in my career hopefully.
but. you know. really
it's going to be. like.
for all these little kids
that are coming up now.
McDONALD: That's exactly
what we're fighting for.
We're fighting for that change.
and literally. like. people
have stopped me in my tracks
just to say thank you. and
that's because of this fight.
I mean. it's 2020.
and at this point.
we need equity.
and we need equality.
The beginning of my career
with the NWSL.
I got traded six times
in like four or five years.
I was only making
about 15 grand each year.
Ahh. let's do this.
Off-season.
I had a full-time job.
I was packing boxes at Amazon
for 12 bucks an hour.
Aim for the corners. corners.
good finish!
Childcare was more
than my paychecks.
and so there were
a lot of training sessions
where my infant toddler
would be sitting at training
on his own in his stroller.
Did those days suck?
Yeah. there were times my kid
would crap his pants
and I would have to stop
in the middle of training
and go change him.
SAUERBRUNN: A large majority
of my teammates in NWSL
do not make a livable wage.
So many women have had
to make the decision.
like do I live my dream.
or do I. like. have to start
that other part of my life.
that other career
where I can start making money.
I can start
putting money away?
And Jess made
that tough decision
that she wanted
to live her dream.
and she got to do it.
McDONALD: Much better.
You gotta prep yourself
for success. man!
There you go.
Now. even though I'm
on the USA team. I still work.
I have to coach
just to make ends meet.
Huh!
Wow. I'm right here!
[laughter]
I need to just work my tail off
in order to make it.
Going to training.
doing things that we
need to do to recover.
and then leaving work.
and going home to my other job.
and that's being a mom.
JEREMIAH: Green and yellow.
McDONALD: [laughs]
Like. uh. they're not moving.
How do I tell my coach
how I got injured?
Oh. my goodness.
Kid. you're breaking my back.
you're so heavy.
I couldn't imagine my life
not being a mom.
obviously in this career.
because I come home
to my child.
and he's just such a happy kid.
[laughter]
I have Jeremiah's name.
and it's a Bible verse.
Jeremiah 1:5.
"Before I formed you
in the womb.
I knew you before you were born.
I set you apart.
I set you as a prophet
to the nations."
My little guy.
We want to get paid fairly.
and we want more moms out there
because it's a badass thing
for--can I say that?
Okay. cool. Okay.
Well. it's a badass thing when
you can juggle being a parent
and getting paid well
for what you're doing.
I have a family here
in North Carolina
who have been my rock.
and I have no idea
what I would do without them
because I don't have
blood relatives here.
They are my help.
They are my family here.
I was just looking
for somewhere cheaper to live.
and then they just
offered their home.
It's like. well. technically
you don't have a home.
so you can just move in with us.
This is just like that break
I've been waiting
for my entire career.
It's like
I just need solid support
and being able to juggle
my career at the same time.
and I got that.
I believe the person
that I am today
and the things that I achieved.
the reason for it is
I didn't want to end up
like my parents.
Inside my house. there was
just a lot of fighting.
and my way of decompressing
and relieve stress
was playing sports.
And that's sort of carried over
into my life today.
♪
When the U.S. Women's
National soccer team
has a full stadium coming to
support them. that's beautiful.
When people are on our side
as female athletes.
that's beautiful.
It brings people together.
It's absolutely changed my life.
[cheering]
All these things helped shape me
into the human being
that I am today.
♪
Get it away. get it away.
kick it out. kick it out. good.
Good. all. you have time.
Good. good finish.
Now as a mother.
I'm trying to be the best mother
that I possibly can be.
[laughs]
I don't know if I'm always
doing things right.
but I feel like
every parent feels that way.
I. I feel like that's sort of
a common denominator
for all parents.
but. uh. you know.
I'm just trying to raise a good
human being because. I mean.
I love that little boy so much
from the bottom of my heart.
[laughs]
Go. go. go. go.
He's seven years old.
He's at an age right now
where he's going to remember
celebrating the World Cup with
his mother. with Megan Rapinoe.
with Christen Press. with
all these incredible females.
He doesn't know it yet.
but it's going to hit him hard.
It's going to
hit him hard one day
once he is able to understand
how big this is.
Hopefully he can be inspired
by that with whatever it is
that he wants to do
with his life.
Are you saying that I'm slower
than my grandmother?
JEREMIAH: Yes.
McDONALD:
I'm slower than Grandma?
JEREMIAH: Yeah.
McDONALD: [gasps]
At the end of the day. I'm here
to set a good example for my son
that if you want to chase
a dream or if you have a goal.
you don't stop
until you get there.
Uh! Can you pick me up?
Here. let me get on your back.
JEREMIAH: No!
McDONALD: Why?
JEREMIAH: I can't.
I can't hold you!
McDONALD: But you're like
the strongest kid in the world.
JEREMIAH: No. I'm not!
McDONALD: Oh. well.
I think you are. Okay. okay.
Not too much.
KESSLER: So. USSF makes
a number of counter-arguments
against our case.
I don't think even one of them
has the slightest bit of merit.
So. one of the arguments
is that if you look
over the last five years.
there are some women on the team
who actually got
more compensation
than some of the men did.
How could that
be discrimination?
Well. it's very simple.
The women played more games
than the men.
they were more successful
and they made the World Cup.
and the men didn't
make the World Cup.
So. even with discriminatory
agreements. yes. it's true.
Some of the women made a total
compensation in dollars
more than some of the men.
Does that make it equal?
No. because equality
is about the opportunity.
The USSF does argue also
that the men generate
more revenues for U.S. Soccer.
Well. that sounds good. right?
Well. that should be a basis.
The problem is. it's not true.
Since 2015. we have their
audited financial statements.
All the revenue they assigned
to the women's team
and the revenue
they assigned to the men's team.
if you add that all up.
the women have made more
than the men's team for USSF.
The highest TV ratings in this
country for any soccer game
has been the championship game
in the World Cup
of this women's team.
not a game of the men's team.
And then they say.
well. the woman agreed
to the agreement they have.
they agreed
to their compensation.
so why should they complain.
they accepted it.
The problem with that
is they were never presented
the men's deal.
They agreed
to the best agreement
presented to them at that time.
Had they been paid
under the men's agreement
at the same rates.
these women together would have
made far more money.
We believe the number is
in excess of $60 million more
for the last four years.
So this is not a question
of apples and oranges.
This is a question of women
doing the same job as the men
for the same employer
on the same-size field
under the same rules.
except they do it better
and get paid less.
♪
RAPINOE: Really? This
is what we're going to do?
You're going to come out
and say that you paid us more!
SAUERBRUNN: [sighs]
The argument was we actually
outearned our male counterparts.
but what is not discussed
is that we had to be
wildly successful
in order to outearn
our male counterparts.
We had to win World Cups.
We had to win.
you know. SheBelieves.
Four Nations.
all our friendlies.
in order to make
more than the men.
Like. we have to do
all of these things
in order to make
a little bit more than the men?
It's not fair.
RAPINOE: I thought
we were going to be
in a better place.
and. like. it just feels
like we're going to be
far away.
It feels like we're going to be
far away in this mediation.
[sighs]
This is really irritating.
It's really frustrating.
Honestly. I'm just
so fucking sick of...
like. debating my own worth
with the federation.
MOLLY LEVINSON:
The only way to force change
is to make U.S. Soccer
have the conversation
in the sunlight. in the open.
so that everybody can see the
decisions that they're making.
As soon as we have
a finalized statement.
Angela. you want to do
The Times.
and. Kylie. you want to do
Journal. Post.
and all the networks?
I hope AP goes first.
I think they will.
and then we should
just be ready to respond
because I think we're gonna
get a lot of calls.
That's a little bit
of what's happened with you.
that because
you're not political.
you've been allowed to sort of
say and be who you want to be.
and everyone's listening.
It's not that some people
have their ears shut off.
Like. everyone's listening
to what you're all saying.
RAPINOE: How are you guys?
You good?
Hi. sweetie.
[people chatting]
GIRL: Thank you!
RAPINOE: Exciting. right?
LEVINSON: [gasps] Where's my ad?
[muffled voices]
Do you know where the ad is.
like. in the physical paper?
Have you seen it?
Oh. of course.
RAPINOE: Give it to me. Molls.
LEVINSON:
"Women just made history.
But they have always
deserved equal pay.
23 is the number of players
on one champion team.
women's or men's.
23 pairs of chromosomes
make up one winning athlete.
female or male.
23 is a prime whole number.
It can never be divided.
23 is the number of strength."
Totally makes me cry.
"But...
...we know strength..."
When Secret put
this outstanding advertisement
in The New York Times.
it. it. it's a sign.
it's a public sign
that U.S. Soccer is going
to literally get dragged
into equal pay.
"But after all the toasts.
cheers. parades.
and awards subside.
the issue remains.
Inequality is about more
than pay and players;
it's about values.
Let's take this moment
of celebration
to propel women's sports
forward
and help close
the gender pay gap.
Equal work. equal sweat.
equal pay."
RAPINOE: That's so good.
Shout-out. Secret!
LEVINSON: This is the shattering
of a whole structure
that's been in place
for a long time.
It's pretty fucking amazing.
Oh. Governor Inslee is here.
JAY INSLEE:
Every day when I meet
the most inspirational
Washingtonian of the day.
I make them
the Washingtonian of the Day.
RAPINOE: Okay.
INSLEE: When I do that.
I take out this little pin
and I pin it on them.
Not quite as famous
as the World Cup.
but it has some charm.
RAPINOE: It could be
if I wear it. [laughs]
♪ The feelin' that you get.
that's emotion ♪
♪ Press junkie got a bag
on the docket ♪
♪ Sun shining on the god
like the day comin' ♪
♪ I know you gotta spend money
just to make money ♪
WOMAN: We are so excited.
Look at the girls.
I was like. let's go.
I love you so much.
You are so dope.
You are the bomb!
CHUCK TODD: What are you
going to do next?
Would you at all entertain
running for office
or something else?
RAPINOE: I'm not sure
I'm qualified for office.
I'm going to fight
for equal pay every day
for every single person
out there.
as the great Serena Williams
said. "Until I am in my grave."
[cheering and applause]
♪
My girlfriend Sue
is a basketball player.
She's affectionately known
as the Point God.
Sue's a little bit
more successful than me.
but it's fine.
SUE BIRD: That you're proving
that you make money.
They already know it.
[laughs]
RAPINOE: Activism for us
just is life.
I mean. we're female athletes.
we're gay female athletes.
We just genuinely want things
to be better.
And we're both in positions
where we can be
really influential
in making that happen.
♪
BIRD: You look very comfortable.
WOMAN: There. That's a winner
right there.
♪
We get it. we obviously.
like. know who we are
and realize that that's.
you know. an important thing
in breaking down barriers
in the LGBT community.
and just both fighting
for equality in our sports.
SANDRA BULLOCK: A great team
builds culture and connection
well beyond its run.
And the winner is...
All those in favor
of equal pay say aye.
the Women's National Team.
[cheering and applause]
♪
LEVINSON: What's happened
over the past months
is that the players
have gotten to be so much bigger
than this conversation over
a lawsuit with their employer.
I mean. Megan Rapinoe
is a global icon for equality.
I don't think Carlos Cordeiro
can compete with this.
I don't think the entire
U.S. Soccer Federation
can compete with this.
[crowd chanting]
GIRL: U.S. Soccer's arguments
against paying women
the same as men are just excuses
for holding onto beliefs
that are outdated and wrong.
ANNOUNCER:
The Burlington High School
girls varsity soccer team
is not playing around
when it comes
to wage inequality.
♪
GIRL: We just wanted jerseys
for our team.
and then we had to just
open it up to the community.
♪
OPRAH WINFREY: Go. USA!
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ: Hey!
RAPINOE: Hey!
JOE BIDEN: You have to get
the same pay that men get.
ELIZABETH WARREN: Equal pay
and equal working conditions.
period.
BILLIE JEAN KING: You are
on the right side of history.
and you cannot let up
now or ever.
STEPHEN CURRY: You've inspired
so many young girls and boys
to use their voice.
to speak on what they believe.
SNOOP DOGG: Man.
pay them ladies. man!
Pay them girls what they worth!
Snoop Dogg says so.
♪ What you see is what you get ♪
[Marta speaking Portuguese]
GIRLS: Equal pay!
LEVINSON: U.S. Soccer has used
every tool at their disposal
to get rid of this conversation
and to ignore this problem.
They just use everything
available to them
not to take responsibility.
RAPINOE: Like. this is
a new all-time low.
Like. really are the governing
body of. you know.
in a nonprofit organization
for soccer in this country.
and you're lobbying
against equal pay?
Like. that's wild.
O'HARA: When you find out
that they're hiring lobbyists
to go around DC to peddle
their narrative to Congress.
it's like you're spending
more money to...
...tell. try to tell.
to paint your picture.
That's just not. it's not true.
And so for me. that's just.
it's another example
of wanting to run
your head into the wall.
It's like. really?
That's what you're doing?
♪
SPANGLER: Jessica.
can you hear us?
I just had a few items
on our agenda today.
When you file a lawsuit.
it's actually not
the lawyer's lawsuit.
It's the individuals' lawsuit.
and the individuals
have to direct the lawyers
on the direction
that they want to see
the lawsuit go in.
Do they want to try
to settle the lawsuit?
What is the strategy?
McDONALD: Yeah. because I really
didn't know the difference...
SPANGLER: All of that
information has to come
directly from the plaintiffs.
They really have to be
100 percent engaged in this.
PRESS: A lawsuit is something
that no professional athlete
would ever want to have.
It's so much work.
It takes you away
from your sport.
Um. it's very stressful.
RAPINOE: This is
the same sentiment
that's been happening for.
you know. years and years.
decades and decades.
through many
different negotiations.
SAUERBRUNN: Something needs
to just completely collapse
and crumble. and we need
just to build it up.
O'HARA: We are in camp a lot.
but then there's times
when we're in completely
different time zones. states.
SAUERBRUNN: That's great. guys.
Thank you very much
for doing this.
O'HARA: There's
a lot of phone calls.
um. a lot of text messages.
a lot of emails.
RAPINOE: Strategizing
and keeping everyone
on the same page and...
Carlos was the only one
that had his eyes on that.
Discriminated peoples
do not have the luxury
of fucking around. frankly.
So. it's our players
that are having to form
what the lawsuit is.
you know. figuring out all of
the inequalities over the year.
trying to go
through our contract.
going through
the other contracts.
so it's hours and hours
and hours and hours and hours
and hours and hours of our time.
[ringing]
[laughs] What is that?
All the moons?
PRESS: All the moons
for all my moods.
Try to suffer a little less.
RAPINOE: Isn't the point.
to. like. suffer through it?
PRESS: No. the point is
to alleviate suffering.
live in bliss.
transcend society.
cessation of all pain.
love. and kindness.
[Rapinoe laughs]
And I'm getting on a call
in like an hour
with Gloria Steinem.
RAPINOE: LOL. that's amazing.
You know who I talked to today?
Chance the Rapper.
PRESS: [gasps]
Tobin will be so jealous.
Lyrical rap is her jam.
RAPINOE: I know.
PRESS: What did he say?
RAPINOE: Well.
he was reaching out
because his manager. I think.
is like a huge fan.
and it was her birthday.
but he was really cool. though.
PRESS: Okay. we have to have
a real talk really quick.
You need to slow down. I think.
RAPINOE: Oh. yeah. how?
PRESS: How? Start saying no.
RAPINOE: I know. I can't.
PRESS: You need to.
You're going to lose yourself.
RAPINOE: I am saying no
to games. [laughs]
PRESS: No. no. no.
RAPINOE: I know. It's crazy.
I have to stop. obviously.
PRESS: You are not
going to stop.
RAPINOE: I know. it's a lot.
PRESS: This is too much.
this is too much.
I literally work all day.
I get home. I go on my laptop.
and I work from 2 PM
until midnight every single day.
and I never run out
of things to do.
Tobin calls me. and she goes.
"Get up. Leave your devices.
Go on a walk."
RAPINOE: Move your legs.
PRESS: [laughs]
Don't lose yourself.
RAPINOE: I'm not going to.
[laughs]
Okay. well. listen.
we'll talk tomorrow.
PRESS: Okay.
RAPINOE: Okay. love you.
PRESS: Love you.
LEVINSON: A lot of the times
when we're doing work
on the lawsuit. it's happening.
you know. late at night.
after games. on weekends.
when these players. you know.
have been spending
100 percent of their energy
succeeding on the field.
We knew that we needed
to get the attention
of the board of U.S. Soccer.
and so we wrote a letter.
We finished the letter
really late at night.
It was 1:00 or 2:00
in the morning.
and it needed to be sent.
it needed to be sent
by the next day.
There were three players
who. at 2:00 in the morning.
got on the phone to all 28
of their teammates
and called them and woke them up
wherever they were
and got them to take photos
of their signature
and send it to us in a PDF.
It's just the tiniest thing.
it's just one hour of a night.
but it shows what has to be done
in an effort like this
on a day-to-day basis.
SAUERBRUNN: Dear U.S. Soccer.
We would like to believe
that we collectively share
the same goal.
McDONALD: That women's soccer
in the U.S. continues to be
the leading program of its kind
in the world.
O'HARA: And yet. while we
acknowledge your investment
and applaud USSF
for taking action
to fulfill its own mission.
the women's program is not equal
to what our male counterparts
receive from USSF.
SAUERBRUNN: What happened
during the 2019 World Cup
tournament was remarkable.
McDONALD: We witnessed
higher revenue numbers.
higher ratings...
MEWIS: ...more fans...
O'HARA: ...more enthusiasm.
RAPINOE: And we were
hopeful once again
when your representatives
agreed...
O'HARA: ...under significant
pressure from fans.
sponsors. and lawmakers...
MEWIS: ...to meet with us and
submit a proposal for equal pay.
O'HARA: It is time.
McDONALD: It is time.
RAPINOE: It is time.
SAUERBRUNN: Our collective
fans. sponsors.
colleagues. and peers
are waiting and watching
for us to emerge...
MEWIS: ...triumphant together.
One nation. one team.
O'HARA: One nation. one team.
McDONALD: One nation. one team.
Sincerely. Jessica McDonald.
MEWIS: Sincerely.
Samantha Mewis.
O'HARA: Sincerely.
Kelley O'Hara.
RAPINOE: Sincerely.
Megan Rapinoe.
SAUERBRUNN: Sincerely.
Becky Sauerbrunn.
RAPINOE: It's hot today.
SAUERBRUNN: Feel good? Got
your opening statement ready?
RAPINOE: Yeah. it's a perfect
day to kick ass. Becky.
LEVINSON: So. the idea
behind mediation is that
in the midst
of hard-fought litigation.
that we would sit down
and find common ground
and hammer out a solution.
Everybody cleared
their schedules for three days.
and we were promised that
at the very beginning
of the conversation.
U.S. Soccer would give us
a proposal for equal pay.
RAPINOE: It's straight.
I mean. at any point.
we can settle
throughout the entire thing.
I don't think anyone
wants this to continue
any longer than it has to.
but I would like. um. yeah.
I would like there to be a fair
settlement that. like. you know.
provides equal pay and provides
us the appropriate back pay
for the discrimination
that we face
and addresses the inequities
going forward
and sets the contracts up
that we don't have to then.
the next day.
sue for. you know.
contracts still being unequal.
♪
COMMENTATOR:
More revelations emerge today
about the two guards
tasked with monitoring
accused sex trafficker
Jeffrey Epstein's jail cell
the night he died
by apparent suicide.
The first day was frustrating.
It's like Whac-A-Mole.
It's like Whac-A-Sexist.
basically.
Like. every time
you sort of get one.
like something else pops up.
And then just trying
to think and strategize
how you create a deal.
How do you create a contract?
How do you force someone
or an institution
who's operated a certain way.
You know. it's kind of like
you have to prove
that they did it
and then call them out on it
and then continue
to. like. police them.
And that's the exhausting part.
I think. is just like
the continual policing
and explaining why that's
not acceptable behavior
and like how we can
move forward.
LEVINSON: What's so concerning
is the players just feel
this absolute lack of respect
for who they are
and what they do.
And it doesn't just apply
to the federation.
It's. it's just everyone
around them in the ecosystem.
you know.
lawyers and executives.
I mean. the sad thing is
a lot of these people are men.
and it's not that men
are incapable
of showing respect
or acknowledgement.
but a lot of these men are.
I think there's just this moment
of wanting to punch someone
in the face.
MEWIS: I had to go back
to my club team the next day.
so I missed the second day.
which I think was when most
of the action happened.
but we had a group text going.
♪
There was kind of
some updates coming in.
I think eventually the whole
team was. like. alerted
to what happened.
Ultimately both sides
walked away
without an agreement.
SAUERBRUNN: We had to do so much
to set this moment up.
And for them just
to kind of like.
shit the bed. basically.
We were kind of blown away.
and even though we probably
shouldn't have been.
'cause par for the course.
but people were very frustrated
and very angry.
and Kelley O'Hara probably would
toss a table if she could.
O'HARA: Yeah.
It's like all the things.
It's like we came here prepared
and you didn't.
and we flew here.
We're in the middle
of our season.
and we flew here to mediate
and to come to an agreement.
and you didn't.
There was no--we quickly--
I think. I mean.
I at least was like.
this. they don't.
there's no intention
of coming to a settlement here.
I feel like we've given them
so many opportunities
to compromise. to come together.
to. to make the right choice.
and they just never do.
SAVANNAH GUTHRIE:
Overnight. mediation talks
with the U.S. Soccer Federation
broke down.
COMMENTATOR: A spokesperson
for the players said
it is clear the federation.
quote. "fully intend to continue
to compensate women players
less than men.
They will not succeed."
COMMENTATOR: A USSF spokesman
responded. saying.
"Unfortunately. instead of
allowing mediation to proceed
in a considerate manner.
plaintiffs' counsel
took an aggressive
and ultimately
unproductive approach
that follows months
of presenting
misleading information..."
LEVINSON:
After the conversation failed.
they couldn't go attack
their own players.
who were world champions.
so instead they attacked
the person
who. who's saying the words
on their behalf.
The federation accused me and us
of being misleading
and inflammatory.
Think of the basic.
totally sexist...
brain you have to have to say
that somebody
is being inflammatory
for asking to be paid equally.
that a woman
is being inflammatory
by asking to be paid
equally to men.
RAPINOE: Oh!
♪
This discrimination
is what so many women deal with
all of the time. you know.
and now imagine you can't go
on GMA the next morning.
Now imagine you don't get to do
the morning show hits.
This is our responsibility
to tell people what happened.
♪
GUTHRIE: Was there something
in particular
that's holding up
this. this negotiation?
PRESS: I think unfortunately.
it was just the concept
of paying us equally.
We never even got past that.
WOMAN: It's so nice to see you.
RAPINOE: Thank you.
WOMAN: Yeah! Woo!
RAPINOE: One down. two to go.
MAN: Co-captain Megan Rapinoe
and Christen Press...
♪
AMY ROBACH: You're in the middle
of a World Cup victory tour
right now with your gender
discrimination lawsuit.
What if you lose?
Do you have a plan?
That trial.
when you go to trial?
PRESS: There is no social
equality for women
without financial equality.
and so if that means
that we're gonna go to trial.
we're gonna do that.
RAPINOE: We won't accept
anything less than equal pay.
ROBACH: Megan Rapinoe.
Christen Press.
thank you for joining us.
I got chills even
just thinking about it.
RAPINOE: Exactly.
Thank you. appreciate that.
[camera shutters clicking]
WRITER: So. let's just talk
about the elephant in the room.
I was quite surprised
during your victory speech
at the parade
when you kind of gave
this nice shout-out to Carlos.
and it seemed like everyone
was on the same team
and there was
some genuine respect happening
between both of you there.
Obviously a lot
has happened since then--
the open letter. the lobbyists.
and. you know. obviously
the mediation breaking down--
so how are you feeling
in light of that sort of
switch in tone?
RAPINOE: I mean. I think
that we can say we're. you know.
we're disappointed.
We deserve this.
We. I as a person.
we as a team. we as women.
just in general. like.
why don't we deserve this?
♪ Oh. oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ Eh. eh. eh ♪
♪ La la la la ♪
♪ La la la la la ♪
♪ La la ♪
♪ La la la la la la ♪
♪ La la la la ♪
♪ La la la la la la la ♪
SAUERBRUNN: I think for so long.
women have been brainwashed
into just feeling gratitude
for what they have.
It's something that will be
very difficult to break.
you know. universally.
but I think having mentors
and other women
who kind of open up this kind of
new world of viewing things
and kind of guiding them along.
I think will help change
that mindset.
♪
♪ La ♪
Even myself
early on in my career
with playing
on the National Team.
I was just so happy to be there
and willing to take
whatever scraps they gave me.
And it was really the older
players to help me change that
and to see. like. I'm in charge
of my own destiny.
And if no one else
is going to fight for it.
like. I'm never going to get it.
like. I have to fight
for myself.
♪
COMMENTATOR: Today is the day
soccer fans around the country
have been waiting for.
the World Cup finals
between the American
women's team and China.
COMMENTATOR:
The Women's World Cup final
at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena.
MEWIS: When I think back on
watching the World Cup in 1999
and seeing Brandi Chastain
and Mia Hamm and Julie Foudy
and my heroes of that time.
I mean. my sister and I
watched those tapes back.
we had them on VHS.
and we would just rewind
and play them over.
I had. we had the commentary.
like. memorized.
And I think it was like
the magic of the patriotism
and seeing people with
their faces painted as a flag
and the realization
that these women
were representing our country.
they're the best in the country.
really just drew me in.
SAUERBRUNN: I was at home
in St. Louis.
I was watching the game
with my dad.
He's in his rocking chair.
I'm just. like. on the floor
with my head in my hands
just watching.
and that was the moment for me
where I was like.
"Whatever it takes.
whatever it takes.
I need to know
what that feels like."
COMMENTATOR:
A lot more people watching
from all over the world.
not just in the United States.
O'HARA: The fight for equal pay
has been going on
for a long time.
and it's. it's been going on
since probably
this team started.
SAUERBRUNN: And I shudder
to think where we would be
without those types of players
and those types of leaders.
And we tried to really
just continue on the fight
that the Abbys and the
Christies. and even before that.
the Julie Foudys
and the Michelle Akerses.
that they were fighting.
It was always a battle.
COMMENTATOR: 52nd minute.
still scoreless in the title
game of the Women's World Cup.
Julie Foudy. longtime member
of this team.
FOUDY: A lot of the mindset
back then was.
"You should just be
grateful. darling.
that you have
a place to play." right?
"You're wearing
the red. white. and blue.
and stop asking
for more things."
COMMENTATOR: A record crowd
for not just women's soccer
but a women's sporting event.
FOUDY: And mind you. we were
getting $10 a day. that's it.
You had players.
really good players.
who were retiring
at. you know. 23. 24
just because they couldn't
afford to continue on.
There's just so many things.
like. they would give us
these uniforms.
the shorts would be
hanging down to your knee.
the sleeves would be like here.
We would be
on a ten-hour flight.
we would have
no seat assignment.
they would put you
in the middle.
literally sitting in smoking.
and we would say.
"Can you just assign us seats?
Is that too much to ask?"
You know. you'd be
in your room in the hotel.
the roaches would. like.
scurry to take cover.
and I was like. "Oh. my god.
I did not need to see this."
[cheering]
ANNOUNCER: Fawcett goes long.
FOUDY: It was just
one thing after another.
and so the little things become
big things. and you get angry.
ANNOUNCER: China's the only team
that's beaten the USA in '99.
FOUDY: We knew that World Cup
was this incredibly important
milestone for the women's game.
COMMENTATOR: The winner
of the 1999 Women's World Cup
will be decided
on penalty kicks.
FOUDY: We went
into penalty kicks.
which you never want to do
in a World Cup final.
COMMENTATOR: Ying will go next.
the first starter for China
to take a penalty kick.
FOUDY: Billie Jean King would
say. "Pressure is a privilege."
Let's go. Let's show
the world what we got.
COMMENTATOR:
The shot. Save. Scurry!
[cheering]
FOUDY: And. of course.
the rest is history.
COMMENTATOR:
The USA could win the World Cup
on this next kick.
Chastain will take it.
She missed a penalty kick
against China
in the Algarve Cup.
and they lost that game.
[cheering]
Goal!
♪
FOUDY: People don't know
that was a. you know.
common soccer celebration
that men did.
You didn't see women
do it often.
[cheering]
We thought. okay. you know.
winning the 1999 World Cup
will be the catalyst for
people's light bulbs to go off.
and everyone
will have this epiphany.
Our lawyer. I can't believe
I'm telling you this. [laughs]
We actually got him a hat
that said GFY.
When we finally won
the World Cup
and we had a little leverage.
we'd do GFY.
and that meant
go fuck yourself.
if that was a no
to their proposal.
[laughs]
We'd be like. "Johnny. Johnny.
you know what we're
going to say. Johnny."
And he'd be like.
"Oh. come on."
I'd be like.
"That's right. Johnny.
you go tell them. GFY. GFY."
[laughs]
COMMENTATOR: Michelle Akers
will join President Clinton
as he announces a plan
to improve federal laws
requiring equal pay
for women and men.
BILL CLINTON: We want
to make sure that everyone
will have the chance to make
the most of their abilities.
MICHELLE AKERS: We're still
being discriminated against.
we still are not paid equally
for the equal amount of work
that we do.
FOUDY: Nothing was happening.
and we'd keep asking.
Nothing was happening.
The fact that it's been ongoing
for. you know. 20 years now
is a little discouraging.
honestly.
I don't think things change
historically
until people get angry enough
and motivated enough
to rise up and say.
"Uh-uh. no more.
This isn't right.
and this isn't fair."
♪
SPANGLER: The moment
that the mediation failed.
the very next thought was
now we get ready for trial.
KESSLER: The next phase
is depositions.
Depositions is like testimony
like you would see at a trial.
but it's before the trial.
And we get to take
these depositions.
they're sworn under oath.
just like a trial.
and ask questions
of their witnesses.
And they will also. by the way.
then take the depositions
of many of the players.
and these depositions.
by the way. they're no fun.
But you know what I found?
I tell this
to all of my witnesses.
It's easy to tell the truth.
To lie. that's hard.
PRESS: Right now we have
kind of a long process
of getting through all
the depositions as. as a team.
and I think it feels
just like very foreign
and like. almost like
not a real part of my life.
SPANGLER: So. okay. so what
I want to do at the beginning
is just really talk about
what it's going to be like
giving a deposition.
You've never done that
before. right?
PRESS: No.
SPANGLER: Okay. all right.
One thing that the lawyer
will try to do
is to make it seem
like it's really informal.
it's really conversational.
we're just here having
a nice little chat.
and that's to sort of
get you off your guard.
It's not informal.
Depositions are never informal.
It's as if you're testifying
at trial.
SAUERBRUNN:
The whole deposition process
was extremely frightening.
O'HARA: Your whole phone
gets copied.
That's uncomfortable. that feels
like an invasion of privacy
for a lot of people.
SPANGLER: The person
across the table from you
is not your friend. all right?
Their whole goal is
to get information from you
that will hurt your case
and help their case.
That's the goal.
♪
RAPINOE: Hi! How are you?
LEVINSON: They ask a question.
and Megan doesn't
know the answer.
and she looks to you.
SPANGLER: She can't look to me.
The only time you can look to me
or look to Elizabeth
is if you're concerned
that something might impede
upon the privilege.
That would be legitimate.
because at the end of the day...
LEVINSON: I think
there's so much riding on this.
it's become so. so much bigger
than this group of players
in this moment.
And I think...
I think it feels like
there's a lot to lose.
There's just a lot to lose
if we don't succeed.
♪
JEANIFER PARSIGIAN:
So. just to update you.
ask him what the new women's
coach's salary is?
KESSLER: Yes. we will
make sure we cover that.
♪
We are almost at the end
of fact discovery.
Carlos Cordeiro
ran for president in 2018.
CORDEIRO:
For our national teams.
I've talked a lot
about equality.
you know. and equal resources.
KESSLER: During his campaign.
he stated that he believed
the women were being
discriminated against
and being treated unfairly.
CORDEIRO: My campaign
was all about being
more collaborative. inclusive.
and working on teams.
and I think you'll see
a very different leadership
going forward.
KESSLER: Well. he won
the election on that basis.
and after he became president.
complete turnaround.
♪
One of the things we got
from the past president
of U.S. Soccer. Sunil Gulati.
is that when the women asked
for equal pay
in collective bargaining
through their union in 2016.
they admitted.
and this was testimony
from a variety of officials.
they admitted that they refused
to provide such equal pay.
and that's very important.
They never offered the women
the same deal as the men.
We thought this was
very powerful evidence.
Most of this has now been
put into the record
before the court.
We think we've shown
there really should be
no dispute about it.
but if there is.
that's the kind of issue
that will go to trial.
♪
O'HARA: Throughout my entirety
with this team
when we do come together
as a collective
and we...decide
we're doing this with one voice
and we're all making
the same decision.
that's when we've gained
the most progress.
This team has
such a rich history.
culture. a winning résumé.
And I'm on this team
for a finite amount of time.
I want to leave this team
better than I found it.
and for me. that was
winning championships.
that was winning
as many gold medals
and as many World Cups
as I could for the U.S.
And through my career
and my time with this team.
I've realized that
I want to leave this team
better than I found it
on the field
but also off the field.
and this is
a huge component of that.
Let's see how this goes.
Bye. guys. [laughs]
Thank you!
♪
[ding]
[typing]
[distant siren]
♪
RAPINOE: [sighs] Okay.
Um. so fucking long.
They kept me there all day.
Oh. my god. where are they
going with this?
We have to do this.
This is like our work right now.
we have to do it.
I have to fight
all of my natural instincts
to be wild and emotional.
Now I gotta go take a nap.
[laughs]
McDONALD: I just got notice
about the Olympic
qualifying team for 2020.
and I made the roster.
I am completely
just overwhelmed with joy
and very emotional about it.
You know.
I have to prep Jeremiah.
like. "Hey. buddy. Mommy
has to go away for soccer again.
This is how long I'll be gone.
You're going to be
with the family.
but just know that the reason
why I play soccer
is obviously something
that I love doing.
but also I take care of you
through soccer.
That's how. you know.
I earn my money."
It's very helpful to prep him
for what's about to come.
Bye. sister.
JEREMIAH:
I'm going to draw black.
McDONALD: Since I know that
my kid is well taken care of...
Thank you for everything.
...that's a worry
and that's stress
that I'm able to just leave out.
Thank you. buddy. I love it.
I'm going to take it
with me. okay?
There are millions
of people out there
who would kill
to be in my shoes.
and so I need
to look at it that way.
[kissing]
I just remind myself every day
just to be grateful
and the fact that I even
have that opportunity.
I mean. it's
a one-in-a-million chance.
so I have to grasp it
and hold on to it.
Thank you.
♪
I'm going to pick you up.
one. two. three.
♪
I want you to be
a good listener. okay?
JEREMIAH: Okay.
McDONALD: You be a good boy.
No think sheets.
And do your best
in school. okay?
I'll FaceTime you tonight
before you go to bed. okay?
JEREMIAH: Okay.
McDONALD: I love you. okay?
♪
[kiss]
Go ahead.
[softly]
Oh. my god.
[sniffles]
♪
SAUERBRUNN: After
all these performances
that we've given you.
the product
that we've put on the field
consistently day in and day out.
this is the argument
you're going to come at us with?
O'HARA: This is a terrible
legal argument.
When you're the defendant
in a gender discrimination case.
you're basing
your legal defense on gender?
McDONALD: It was a like
a slap in the face.
We're. we're not in
the. you know. 1950s anymore.
RAPINOE: U.S. Soccer's
main legal strategy
was that the women don't deserve
to be paid fairly
because we have
less responsibility on us
as a player
for the U.S. National Team
because we're
biologically inferior.
Yeah.
[cheering and whistling]
SPANGLER: USSF is
the national governing body
for the entire sport of soccer
in the United States.
and for that national
governing body.
which has no problem taking all
kinds of money from young women.
from girls. from their families.
to look them in the eye and say.
"Yeah. we'll take your money.
but at the end of the day.
we don't view you as equal"
is outrageous.
FOUDY: How. if you're
with the federation.
and who.
if you're with the federation.
allows the lawyers
to come to you and say.
"Hey. let's make this
our legal argument.
Isn't this a great idea?
To not just argue that women
are inherently different
but they're
inherently inferior."
RAPINOE: You don't get
to say that publicly.
You don't get to have
that stance
and not have the team
say something.
I mean. we can't.
we can't not say something.
We have to do
something very strong.
You know. the Clippers team
popped into my mind.
Their owner. Donald Sterling.
was caught on tape saying
just egregiously racist things.
so they switched their shirts
inside out to just say. like.
you know. we're not playing
for you. we're playing for us.
COMMENTATOR: A unified statement
from the Clipper players
wearing their warm-up shirts
inside out
so the word "Clippers"...
RAPINOE: That really
resonated for us.
SAUERBRUNN: So. the women's
crest has the U.S. Soccer badge.
which is just the emblem
of the federation.
and then for our team.
for the women's team.
we have the four stars
on top of the badge.
which represents
our four World Cup wins.
To wear that shirt inside out.
it's like. "U.S. Soccer.
you don't respect us.
and so we are not going
to respect you in this badge."
O'HARA:
Man. I am pissed about this.
I am. I am mad.
This isn't okay.
I want. I want people
to know how we feel.
WOMAN: Let's fucking go!
[cheering and clapping]
♪
SALAZAR: Just before the match.
we noticed something
a little bit different
about the U.S. warm-up.
The U.S. women wearing their
warm-up uniforms inside out.
♪
RAPINOE: For us. the field
is always a sacred place
where we can just go out
and be excellent.
This just felt different.
It just felt like words
weren't gonna be enough.
How more effectively can you say
what we've been saying?
This speaks for itself.
like this. these four stars
embroidered above our patch.
like. that's why we deserve
what we're asking for.
[cheering]
SAUERBRUNN:
We weren't going to smile
because we were pissed off.
Like. why are you going to smile
for a picture
when you're pissed off?
♪
FOUDY: I am so proud of them.
They brought the entire group.
and again it goes back to this.
this is a sisterhood. this is a
family. we're in this together.
We are united in our statement
that disapproves of what you
just said in this lawsuit.
SALAZAR: 84 degrees
here at kickoff
with the 2020 SheBelieves Cup
title on the line.
SAUERBRUNN: We were
so ready to show the world
what real talent.
what real energy.
what real competitive drive is.
Like. all those things
that they argued against us.
we were going
to prove them wrong.
SALAZAR: Meanwhile the Americans
can open the scoring here
in the seventh minute.
[whistle blows]
Rapinoe and Mewis over the ball.
Rapinoe. goal!
FOUDY: That is what happens.
Megan Rapinoe striking
that beautifully.
RAPINOE:
It's not easy to constantly
have to demand your worth
or tell people how good you are
or tell people you deserve
to be like a full human.
and so to be able to just go out
and do the thing
that we're best at.
Free kicks are really difficult.
They don't get scored
very often.
Press chipped the goalkeeper
from like 18 yards out.
It was ridiculous.
SALAZAR: Press turns. the chip.
goal. goal. goal!
[cheering]
RAPINOE: It was just like...
here we are.
♪
SALAZAR: 90th minute.
U.S. clinging.
that might be generous.
holding a 3-1 lead.
FOUDY: As we're doing
the game live.
my play-by-play announcer.
Sebastian Salazar.
he gets a piece of paper
handed to him in the booth.
and he turns to me. and he goes.
meaning give me a second.
And I have no idea
what the piece of paper is.
SALAZAR: Julie. I have just
been handed a statement
from USSF President
Carlos Cordeiro.
FOUDY: And he reads
the statement.
SALAZAR: I'm reading it
for the first time
as I'm reading it to you.
"On behalf of U.S. Soccer.
I sincerely apologize
for the offense and pain
caused by language
in this week's court filing.
which did not reflect
the values of our federation
or our tremendous admiration
of our Women's National Team.
I have asked the firm
of Latham & Watkins
to join and guide our legal
strategy going forward."
FOUDY: I literally had
that same emotion
I used to have as a player
that would hear U.S. Soccer
give a bullshit argument.
and you would have to call
their bullshit.
You're like. no.
How is this ever allowed
to happen. Sebastian?
What I don't get is how
you get to this position
where you're okay
with letting your legal team
run all these depositions
in that manner.
You know this is happening.
SAUERBRUNN: What do you mean.
you didn't know
about what was being filed?
Like. you're the president
of U.S. Soccer.
like. your eyeballs
didn't see this
before it. before it went out?
FOUDY: Clearly
U.S. Soccer had to know.
so to then. at that stage.
simply because sponsors had.
I felt. been very vocally
against U.S. Soccer's position.
to stand up and say.
"Oh. my bad."
I was like.
uh-uh. no. not today.
not 20 years ago when we played.
not going forward. no more.
What are you telling
a young girl?
This inherently inferior
argument was soul crushing.
They've. of course. walked that
back. but it's too late.
SALAZAR: As they always have.
the U.S. Women's National Team
prove their worth on the field.
For the third time
in the five-year history
of this tournament.
they are SheBelieves Cup
champions.
RAPINOE: To see that
as the argument.
as sort of blatant misogyny
and sexism
as the argument against us.
is really disappointing.
But I just want to say
it's all false.
To every girl out there.
to every boy out there
who watches this team.
who wants to be on this team
or just wants
to live their dream out.
you are not lesser
just because you are a girl.
you are not better
just because you're a boy.
We are all created equal
and should all have
an equal opportunity
to go out and pursue our dreams.
CROWD: Equal pay! Equal pay!
MEWIS: The girls need to know
they're just as good.
and the boys need to know
the girls are just as good.
I feel like it's so dangerous
to teach young boys
that girls aren't
as good as them.
It's like leading us
all down this bad path
to just. like. perpetuate sexism
that's been around forever.
CROWD: Equal pay!
Equal pay! Equal pay!
COMMENTATOR: It's hard
to think of an organization
that's had a worse
three or four years
than the U.S. Soccer Federation.
An appalling misstep.
Carlos Cordeiro.
U.S. Soccer president.
enduring a firestorm and in fact
resigning just late last night.
KESSLER: Yeah.
the world is reacting.
and it's caused them to retreat.
Carlos Cordeiro
was forced to resign.
Their lawyers for the case
were removed.
They were fired and replaced
with another law firm.
Uh. they withdrew that defense.
uh. before the judge
on the summary judgment motions.
What it really should
cause them to do
is to settle and agree
to equal pay going forward.
Well. it hasn't caused them
to do that yet.
♪
COMMENTATOR: This is CNN
special live coverage
of the coronavirus.
COMMENTATOR: This morning.
virtually the entire
sports scene at a standstill.
COMMENTATOR:
The NBA. MLS. the NHL.
they are all suspending games.
effective immediately.
COMMENTATOR:
The Summer Olympics in Tokyo
may not happen as planned.
O'HARA: Boom.
MEWIS: Today is Friday.
March something.
RAPINOE: What's going on?
This is. uh.
I don't know. quarantine day.
I think we're on
like three weeks or something.
Came back here
right after SheBelieves.
and I'm in Connecticut.
SAUERBRUNN:
I'm staying in my house.
The only time I really
venture out is to a field
to get some training in
when I can.
O'HARA: It's definitely weird.
Our NWSL season
has been pushed back.
National Team games
have been cancelled.
♪
McDONALD: Next sentence.
JEREMIAH: "Other reasons..."
McDONALD: Will they start school
next semester.
and are they going to make kids
wear masks now?
Five. six.
Uh! Oh. my goodness!
RAPINOE: We think it's bad now.
It's probably going to get
a lot worse unfortunately.
SAUERBRUNN: So. I was sitting.
taking some time to myself
playing a video game.
and I get a text message
that is our executive committee
group chat.
And it's from Sam saying.
"So. what? Does this mean
we fucking lost?"
O'HARA: So. I just
finished working out
and looked at my phone
and saw a text from Sam.
and it didn't look good
or sound good.
SAUERBRUNN: And I'm thinking
she maybe meant that text
for somebody else.
um. and so I kind of write back
and inquire like. what?
Like. what are you
talking about?
LEVINSON: Read it slowly.
Yeah. read it slowly.
I'll be back to you.
Got it.
O'HARA: We're about
to get on a call. um.
with our legal team
and the legal committee
and just figure out
what this all means
'cause I think a lot of us
are confused.
and we're. um. just trying
to wrap our heads around this.
But I definitely have a pit
in the bottom of my stomach
right now.
♪
KESSLER ON PHONE:
Okay. it's Jeffrey.
I just got on.
I'll just start out by saying
what I told Molly when I...
♪
LEVINSON: I'm sorry
for interrupting you.
We just.
we're going to have to go
because we're losing right now
in the press
because everyone's going with
this story without our comment.
♪
It's Molly coming back. Um...
[sniffles] Sorry.
This isn't the end.
Like. you have to fight this.
Everybody's looking to you
to fight it.
Just keep going.
[crying]
♪
KESSLER: We were
completely shocked
to get a decision
from the judge
which granted summary judgment
against the players'
equal pay claims.
It ruled that only
the working condition claims
could go to trial. but not
the fundamental equal pay claim.
SAUERBRUNN: Initial response
is just shocked.
Just. it's crushing.
and you don't understand.
and I need a deep dive
into that summary judgment.
SPANGLER: We never expected
that the judge
could reach the kind
of conclusions that he reached.
particularly that on the central
issue of pay discrimination.
You can't look
at total compensation.
you have to look
at rate of pay.
It just doesn't fundamentally
make sense in my mind
from a legal perspective.
RAPINOE: Yeah.
I mean. it's just.
it's just so disappointing.
Like. I don't understand it
at all.
SPANGLER: There's a dispute.
there's a dispute
into those facts.
A jury should decide
that dispute.
and so I think it's most likely
that the Ninth Circuit would say
there are disputes
as to a number of the facts
that the judge
decided were undisputed
and that those facts
should be tried to a jury.
RAPINOE: So. yeah.
we'll go to the Ninth Circuit
and do. yeah. our appeal there.
MEWIS: Yes. it's a setback.
and. yes. it's a disappointment.
but we did this for a reason.
and it's going to take
a lot more than this
to stop us in our tracks.
SAUERBRUNN: I always thought at.
from the very beginning of this
that even if we came out of this
and we went to trial
and we lost jury decision.
that there was so much
significance in the fight
and so much importance.
and so...
that's what we're going to do.
We're going to continue
to fight.
KESSLER: There are a lot
of young women and girls
who are looking up to the team.
looking up to all of us
in this case.
No one wants to let them down.
so we're not going
to let them down.
We're going to keep fighting.
SAUERBRUNN: It's not over.
and I know I'm convicted
in my heart that it's not over.
And that's a good feeling.
Shitty day. but a good feeling.
RAPINOE: So. what the judge
said was that first of all.
we agreed to the deal
and it turned out
to be not as good.
and so you can't just agree
to something
and then it doesn't turn out
the way you like it
or the way you want it.
and so then you go back on it.
Obviously. the point that
the judge. I feel like. missed
was that we never
had the opportunity
to agree to the same deal.
so the men got to. you know.
do their negotiating
on the top floor.
and we started
in the parking lot.
And then also
what Judge Klausner said
was over the course of.
you know. X amount of years.
we actually made more money
than the men.
and which. dollar for dollar.
that is true.
which is actually a testament
to how successful we have been.
Say we made $100 in that year.
we had to win nine games
to make $100.
and the men made $90.
but they had to win three games.
so we still.
yes. made more money.
but we worked twice as hard.
SPANGLER: If the fundamental
notion is that.
in order for us to be paid
equally going forward.
we have to win more and we have
to win at the highest levels.
the kind of pressure that
that puts on them is. um.
quite frankly. I don't think
it's remotely lawful.
but we will see if the Ninth
Circuit agrees with that.
♪ La la la la la ♪
RAPINOE: I think the story's
the same everywhere.
Whether you're an executive.
whether you're
a domestic worker.
whether you're a soccer player.
women get paid less
to do the same job.
♪ La la la la la la ♪
SAUERBRUNN: This is not
the way we wanted it to go.
but in no way
is this fight over.
We have our next steps.
we have our marching orders.
like. let's go.
this is not done.
♪ La la la la la ♪
♪ La la la la ♪
MEWIS: Think about
how we got our country.
think about racial inequality
and when women didn't have
the right to vote.
You have to take risks.
and it doesn't come easy.
If you want the world
to look a certain way.
you have to fight to get there.
♪ La la la ♪
♪ La la la la la ♪
♪ La la la la la la ♪
SAUERBRUNN: I want
the U.S. Women's National Team
to be remembered as a group
of women that came together
and were on the right side
of history.
O'HARA: The team
that did the right thing.
that chose to speak up
and to finally do something.
♪ La la la ♪
McDONALD: I would want to be
able to tell my kid one day.
you can fight the good fight.
you can break barriers.
and that's exactly what we did.
♪ La la la la la ♪
♪ La ♪
RAPINOE: Ultimately.
it's not like us against them.
and it's not this.
like. petty thing.
It's like if they win.
no one wins.
If we win. everyone wins.
♪ La la la la la la ♪
♪ La la la la la ♪
♪ La la la la la la la ♪
♪
♪ Yeah ♪
Equal pay! Equal pay! Equal pay!
♪ Let's go.
I ain't known to back down ♪
♪ Never known to give up ♪
♪ And. yeah.
I've been knocked down ♪
♪ But you know I'ma get up ♪
♪ Yeah. I always get up ♪
♪ Better watch out ♪
♪ 'Cuz I'm coming your way ♪
♪ and if you ain't ready
for me ♪
♪ then don't come out to play ♪
♪ No. no. don't show up ♪
♪ No. you can't hold me
no more ♪
♪ I'ma speed it up
like lightning ♪
♪ I don't move in no slow mo' ♪
♪ Well. you don't go toe to toe
with the foes that I'm facing ♪
♪ While I'm arguing with you.
I don't care what you sayin' ♪
♪ I don't care what you sayin' ♪
♪ Can't touch. I'm too fierce ♪
♪ Matter fact. you new here ♪
♪ Matter fact. get this clear ♪
♪ Matter fact.
just get wit' it ♪
♪ I'm crazy cuz I feel ♪
♪ You think I'm crazy
cuz I feel ♪
♪ But I deserve all this ♪
♪ We run the world ♪
♪ Say it loud. say it proud ♪
♪ LFG LF--woo ♪
♪ LFG. let's go ♪
♪ LFG ♪
♪ Let's go. let's go ♪
♪ LFG. stop playin' ♪
♪ LFG ♪
♪ Keep it goin. man ♪
♪ Don't stop ♪
♪ Turn it on and let's go off ♪
♪ Thinkin' you better than me? ♪
♪ Sick of being quiet ♪
♪ So I use my voice on loud ♪
♪ Knock. knock. knock ♪
♪ I'm at your door ♪
♪ I know that you can
hear me now ♪
♪ Come through.
don't play with me ♪
♪ Real strong
when I'm with the team ♪
♪ Squad up. no make believe ♪
♪ Ten plus one two three four ♪
♪ Oohh. got goals to keep ♪
♪ Let's break it down ♪
♪ On the team. off the team ♪
♪ Fighting for a change ♪
♪ Ain't never gon' quit ♪
♪ Never gon' quit. hands high ♪
♪ Are you not entertained? ♪
♪ LFG. let's go ♪
♪ LFG ♪
♪ Yeah. I know. I know ♪
♪ Are you not entertained? ♪
♪
It's a perfect day
to kick ass. Becky.